Steganography is  the  practice of  hiding  a  secret message inside  of (or even  on  top  of) something that  is  not  secret. That  something  can be  just  about anything you want.  These  days, many examples of  steganography involve  embedding  a  secret piece of  text  inside of a  picture.  Or hiding  a  secret message  or  script  inside  of a Word or  Excel document.
The  purpose  of  steganography is  to conceal  and deceive. It  is  a form of covert communication  and  can  involve  the use of any  medium to  hide  messages.  It’s not  a  form  of  cryptography,  because it  doesn’t involve  scrambling  data or using  a  key.  Instead, it is a form of  data  hiding  and can  be executed in clever ways.  Where  cryptography is  a  science that largely enables  privacy,  steganography is  a practice  that enables secrecy  –  and deceit.
How  Steganography  Is  Used  Today
Steganography  has been  used for  centuries,  but these days,  hackers  and  IT pros  have  digitized  The  word “steganography”  seems  fancy, but it actually  comes  from a  fairly  normal place. The  root  “steganos” is  Greek  for  “hidden” or  “covered,” and  the root “graph”  is  Greek for “to  write.” Put these  words  together,  and you’ve got something close to  “hidden  writing,” or “secret writing.”
it to do some  pretty  creative things. There  are  a  number of  apps  that can be  used for  steganography,  including  Steghide,  Xiao,  Stegais and Concealment.
Here’s an example of how digital steganography works. A friend of mine sent me a steganographic message – a secret message embedded within an image. The image was a photo that I had previously sent him of a geyser I had paddled to while on Yellowstone Lake last summer.
Using Steganography to Deliver Attacks
Today, attackers use PowerShell and BASH scripts to automate attacks. So are pen testers. For example, attackers have been embedding actual scripts within macro-enabled Excel and Word documents. Once a victim opens the Excel or Word doc, they activate the embedded, secret script.
The attacker doesn’t need to trick the user into using applications such as Steghide. In this case, the hacker – or pen tester – is “living off the land.” The attacker is using a steganographic application to take advantage of common Windows applications and features such as Excel and PowerShell. All the victim needs to do is read the doc, and an unfortunate series of events begins to occur.
First, the victim clicks on an Excel document that an attacker has modified using steganography.
That click unleashes a hidden PowerShell script.
This script then installs an installer app into the Windows computer. This installer app moves quickly and is so subtle that typical antivirus applications don’t notice it.
This downloader then goes out to the internet and grabs updated versions of malware such as URLZone (or more recent tools) that then compromise the victim’s computer.
Over the years, attackers have used the procedure above to deliver ransomware such as Snatch. Hackers have installed sophisticated malware that is cable of keylogging, enlisting computers into DDoS botnets, or installing trojans, such as the latest variants of Rovnix and Pillowmint. The list goes on.